RTLSpectrumAnalyzer creates a spectrum analyzer from a RTL2832 based DVB dongle.

Usage
-----

Set the start and end frequency and step size, all in hertz. Then start recording data for either the first or second series.

Includes a waterfall that shows the change in strengths over time. This can be set to show just the strength of the frequencies themselves or the increase in the near signal frequencies strength (Series 2 less series 1).

The waterfall minimum and maximum values can also be set or allowed to auto adjust so that the strongest signal is always shown in red and the weakest in blue. 

Also, the average strengths for the frequency ranges on the graphs or the selected zoomed in range for both series are shown. So the average strength of one area or frequency range can be compared with that of the other series.

These features facilitates the objective of the RTLSpectrumAnalyzer and that's of finding the frequencies being generated by a signal source, whether that's from a mobile phone, a bug or from the human body being generated from what is now known as electronic harassment.

The first series should be recorded reasonably far away from the signal source and the second closer.

The frequency strength of the signal source should be a lot stronger when nearer the antenna. Other sources of frequencies such as television and radio should be essentially constant since they are a lot further away.

It's this that facilitates finding the frequency of a signal source.

The difference in the signal strengths can also be graphed and a threshold set to only show those frequencies that are stronger by that amount.

The average of the recorded signals is used since this has a significant effect on improving the clarity of the data.


Installation
------------

You need to have the Visual C++ Redistributable Packages for Visual Studio 2013 from Microsoft found here:

http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=40784


Just download vcredist_x86.exe


If you haven't already installed the dongle follow this guide here:

http://www.rtl-sdr.com/tag/zadig/

If you need to buy the dongle I would also recommend

www.rtl-sdr.com
